hi everybody
this is Jack and this is R all tropical
living I'm back in the garden today but
what I'm bringing to you is we're gonna
cut some cacao and start the process for
getting the cacao already so I thought I
would share this with you a few things
I've learned about cacao while I was
getting ready to do this video it's very
high in antioxidants higher then I say e
berries spinach or blueberries contains
only oleic acid which is also lower
cholesterol high in magnesium and helps
with calcium absorption and it contains
iron copper potassium and zinc I haven't
been sure about this one I mean I know
it's called a superfood but I'm kind of
you know I'm a little bit anti superfood
but you know I'm like hesitant to accept
superfoods that word but we're going to
look into this I hear it's really good
stuff and we're going to be making some
raw healthy treats here in the near
future to sell and distribute around the
town and to share with friends so kal
hopefully we'll play a part in to some
of our dried bananas with cacao Chokin
up with cacao anyhow I'm going to try to
get in here and show you just a couple
of the fruits and then we're going to
cut them
let's see let's see there's a couple
down there on the bottom a couple more
as we go up you'll be able to see these
better as my friend Elena is cutting
them so we're just we're going to switch
this one just for a minute and then
she's going to come in and cut all right
right now we're cutting the fruit damn
there was one and here's another I'm
just gonna cut the break the break
orange ones there's two all right we got
two cacao fruits ready to go wow we're
finding even more than we thought we had
by the way this is my friend Elena
she'll be in some more videos or
actually more of her will be in some
more videos at a later time
haha look at this how many are we gonna
get here we're gonna have some chocolate
boy oh alright look at that nice these
are beauties look at this we're getting
some good yield here I look how Port
Orange these are brilliant day one
now I'm coming out rolling out wow we've
got some I didn't even know we had this
many I was thinking we were pulling one
or two off this tree Wow I say we try
these and I lead these other but five
should catch up with the other green
ones because you're still green ones
here that sounds like a plan yeah some
of them are like a lighter color than
those so I'm gonna leave that you're
gonna leave those at the very bottom to
color like this is a lighter color
uh-huh so I kind of like that that
really really rich orange color and I
think we got enough to work with right
now okay we're going to go back up to
the kitchen and we're gonna cut these
I'm gonna take the seeds out and we're
gonna do the fermentation process for a
couple days so we'll take a look at that
as we do that and then and then the
final is you know drying them and and
enjoying them so sounds good let's go to
the kitchen okay all right now we're in
the kitchen area this is uh
Alania say Holloway Nia and she's going
to cut I'm not even sure exactly how to
cut this is new to me I'm real
interested we could cut through the
middle here we are with the seeds so we
just want to take these seeds out and
we're going to just cover this we
actually have lives and have to go to
work so we're going to just put this in
the bowl right away and I mean we're
going to go off to work and do what we
got to do and tomorrow we're going to
come back and we're going to move them
around a little bit to help with the
fermentation process and we're going to
cover them in the banana leaves that we
have here from the garden and then we're
going to wait a couple more days to
allow the fermentation process to happen
and for these type seats how long are we
thinking on the fermentation process
yes I think that's good cool two or
three days they say that the longer you
ferment it the richer of flavor you'll
get but we don't want over fine Kate it
so that it gets moldy or anything like
that
gotcha oh these are quite interesting
I didn't in something but I didn't
expect them they actually look almost
like little cloves of garlic okay
but now the white substance I forgive me
I'm pretty ignorant on this the white
substance will fall away yes okay dance
and it'll help the flavor of the bean
Wow look at that so beautiful and it
will ferment and and then when we draw
it in the drying process it'll dry and
then we'll be able to pick it off of the
brown beef right now it's quite red with
my slice so with everything we've got
here we're gonna have quite a yield of a
pretty decent amount of chocolate or raw
raw cacao right yeah I mean this is a
pretty good little yield these but we
also like to make um you know little
balls of nuts and cacao and coconut
deliciousness I'm thinking this will be
good with coconut and the food
dehydrator when we get the food
dehydrator down here
but here see I've cut one of these open
by accident and you see it's quite
reddish in color in the inside the beam
oh wow yeah so um it will go Brown when
it's dried it's pretty cool this is
exciting I was thinking that we only had
enough cacao maybe for a couple of bites
you know or a little bit of a sample now
we're not obviously going to go into
business with this amount of cacao but
this is a pretty this is a pretty good
this is a pretty good little bit for us
to eat anyway absolutely so I'm just
gonna put in a little pile like that
okay and this is not sealing it it just
sits just go go guys off I'm going to
put these into my compost and put a
little bit more aloe on and and this let
this sit and then tomorrow we're gonna
put banana leaves on and continue the
fermentation so is this sounds good
alright thanks Elena hi guys
we'll be back tomorrow or in the next
couple of days when we do the next
process maybe it takes more than one day
I don't know but watch for the second
part of this video coming up and thanks
for tuning in give us a thumbs up and
see you soon peace